FIP-0063: Transition to new drand   :racing_car: `fastnet` network (#652)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-0063.md

For further details on these new features and their implementation we refer the reader to [this blogpost](https://drand.love/blog/2022/02/21/multi-frequency-support-and-timelock-encryption-capabilities/) and the complementary, comprehensive [FAQ doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16QJG3Z-Kr0mN6snQz8cm0NnMXpYBpelKyvCf2oo1Zgc/edit?usp=sharing).

## Change Motivation

- The existing drand network is expected to be deprecated in Q4 2023 or Q1 2024.
- The Filecoin network should switch to the new drand mainnet networks before the existing network is deprecated.
- The new drand network is going to be producing **smaller signatures**, which means that Filecoin headers will be more lightweight.
- This new drand network also **allows to perform timelock encryption**, which will be a valuable feature for user-deployed actors.

## Specification

Currently drand verification is performed in two stages:

1. by hashing the previous beacon’s signature and the current beacon round number using SHA256 and comparing the digest to the randomness in the payload, and
2. verifying the signature over the hashed randomness is valid for the group public key (using BLS12-381).

> For signatures on the unchained scheme, the only change required is to omit the previous beacon’s signature when creating a SHA256 digest for comparison against the randomness. Note that the new network also have swaps the way it does BLS signatures, and uses G1 for signatures and G2 for public keys. This means shorter signatures, but it also means the signature verification algorithm needs to be updated in order to be instantiated over G1 instead of G2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For signatures on the unchained scheme, the only change required is to omit the previous beacon’s signature when creating a SHA256 digest for comparison against the randomness. Note that the new network also changes the way it does BLS signatures, and uses G1 for signatures and G2 for public keys. This means shorter signatures, but it also means the signature verification algorithm needs to be updated in order to be instantiated over G1 instead of G2.
```

What is the change from / to? Are there any security risks or considerations with the change?

Reviewer 2: Essentially we just reverse two groups that we use for mapping purposes - it doesn't affect the security of the scheme. There are additional details in this PR for our docs updates: https://github.com/drand/website/pull/170

## Test Cases

In order to enable effective testing, we suggest creating a new, temporary testnets with a small number of clients from each widely supported Filecoin implementation. 

`unchained-scheme-testnet` would be started from fresh with only unchained randomness, and the following scenarios would be tested:

- foundation of a new Filecoin network
- creation of new blocks with unchained randomness
- onboarding new nodes from snapshots that contain unchained randomness

Upon successful testing, the network would be taken down and a new network `mixed-scheme-testnet` would be created. This network would be started using the existing drand chained network, and after creation of some blocks, would be migrated to the drand unchained network.

Scenarios that must be run on this `mixed-scheme-testnet`are:

- onboarding new nodes from existing snapshots (with chained randomness in the headers)
- onboarding new nodes from newly created snapshots (containing both chained and unchained randomness in the headers)
- transition of existing nodes from chained to unchained randomness at a set epoch
- creation of new blocks with the unchained scheme

> ## Security Considerations

Reviewer 2: There are no security implications.
For syncing the past chain, two separate verification techniques will be needed. The client we provides does this transparently, so there shouldn't be any change on the Lotus side. 
For other implementations, it will depend how they do beacon verification, though we have some community implementations in e.g. rust that they can drop in.
Supporting multiple networks always has some historical precedent on filecoin, as the first bunch of blocks on filecoin actually run with randomness from drand dev (the scheme is the same, but the public key is different thus requiring a variation in the verification logic)
